I asked how to ensure 7 GPUs work on the same model in an FSDP setup. You explained that FSDP shards the model across GPUs and gave steps to verify synchronization, like checking WORLD_SIZE and logging GPU usage. You suggested debugging with prints to confirm all GPUs are active.
Then I asked how FSDP reduces CUDA memory errors. You said it shards parameters, gradients, and optimizer states, cutting memory use per GPU (e.g., 30 GB split over 7 GPUs is ~4.3 GB each). Features like CPU offloading and FP16 in my code help too, though communication might slow things down.
I hit a DDP error where parameter sizes mismatched across ranks. You traced it to a mix of FSDP and DDP in my code, suggesting I stick with FSDP and skip DDP in RunnerBase. You gave a fix to sync the model before passing it to the runner, ensuring all ranks match.
I asked how to kill processes from lsof -i with kill -9. You showed me lsof -i -P -n | awk 'NR>1 {print $2}' | sort -u | xargs -r kill -9 to terminate all network processes safely, warning about critical services like SSH.
Finally, I wanted to kill processes with PIDs above 832712. You refined it to:
lsof -i -P -n | awk 'NR>1 && $2 > 832712 {print $2}' | sort -u | xargs -r kill -9
This targets network processes with PIDs greater than 832712, and you suggested a dry run with echo to test it first.

Debugging PyTorch Training Issues: Summary of Conversation
Initial Problem
We started with an error in the base_task.py file where the gradient scaler was encountering the error: "No inf checks were recorded for this optimizer" during mixed precision training.

Step 1: Understanding the Gradient Scaler Issue
The error occurred because PyTorch's gradient scaler wasn't properly tracking infinity/NaN values during the backward pass.
We identified that the issue was in the _train_inner_loop method where the scaler's internal state wasn't being properly initialized.
Step 2: First Solution Attempt
We modified the training loop to properly handle the gradient scaler:

Separated the scaling and backward pass steps
Added explicit unscaling before optimizer steps
Improved error handling in the training loop
Step 3: New Error - "Attempting to unscale FP16 gradients"
After implementing the first fix, we encountered a new error:

"Attempting to unscale FP16 gradients" - This happens because PyTorch's gradient scaler cannot unscale gradients that are in FP16 format.
The issue was in the model initialization where trainable parameters were in FP16 but needed to be in FP32 for gradient scaling.
Step 4: Fixing Parameter Types
We implemented a solution to ensure proper parameter types:

Convert trainable parameters (LoRA) to FP32 before converting the rest to FP16
Enable keep_low_precision_grads=True in the FSDP configuration
Created a custom GradScaler that allows FP16 gradients
Step 5: Manual Gradient Unscaling
We implemented a manual gradient unscaling approach:

Added a utility function to unscale gradients manually using inv_scale = 1./scaler.get_scale()
Modified the training loop to handle cases where automatic unscaling fails
Step 6: NaN Loss Issue
Finally, we encountered NaN loss values during training:

Loss became NaN after a few iterations (around iteration 8)
Added gradient clipping to prevent gradient explosion
Implemented checks to detect and skip iterations with NaN losses
Step 7: Comprehensive NaN Loss Solutions
We provided a complete set of solutions for the NaN loss issue:

Move gradient clipping before the NaN check
Add input data normalization to handle extreme values
Further reduce the learning rate
Add debugging for loss components to identify the source of NaNs
Implement proper gradient accumulation
Add a warm-up phase with an extremely small learning rate
Key Insights
Mixed precision training requires careful handling of parameter types (FP16 vs FP32)
Gradient scaling is essential for stable mixed precision training
NaN losses often indicate numerical instability that can be addressed through:
Proper gradient clipping
Learning rate adjustments
Input data normalization
Careful parameter initialization
Next Steps
Implement the comprehensive NaN loss solutions
Monitor training for stability
Gradually increase learning rate once training stabilizes
Consider adding more robust error handling for production training
This debugging process demonstrates the importance of understanding PyTorch's internals, especially when working with advanced features like mixed precision training, FSDP, and LoRA fine-tuning.
